With big data streaming from different
sources in varying formats, models, and
speeds it is no surprise that we
need to be able to ingest this data
into a fast and scalable storage system
that is flexible enough to serve many
current and future analytical processes.
This is when traditional data warehouses
with strict data models and data
formats don't fit the big data challenges
for streaming and batch applications.
The concept of a data lake was created in
response of these data big storage and
processing challenges.
After this video you
will be able to describe
how data lakes enable batch
processing of streaming data.
Explain the difference between
schema on write and schema on read.
Organize data streams and data lakes and
data warehouses on a spectrum of
big data management and storage.
What is a data lake?
Simply speaking, a data lake is
a part of a big data infrastructure
that many streams can flow into and
get stored for
processing in their original form.
We can think of it as a massive
storage depository with huge
processing power and ability to handle
a very large number of concurrence,
data management and analytical tasks.
In 2010,
the Pentaho Corporation's CTO James Dixon
defined a data link as follows.
If you think of a datamart as a store
of bottled water, cleansed and
packaged and structured for
easy consumption,
the data lake is a large body of
water in a more natural state.
The contents of the data lake stream
in from a source to fill the lake,
and various users of the lake can come
to examine it, dive in, or take samples.
A data lake works as follows.
The data gets loaded from its source,
stored in its native
format until it is needed
at which time the applications can freely
read the data and add structure to it.
This is what we call schema on read.
In a traditional data warehouse,
the data is loaded into the warehouse
after transforming it into a well
defined and structured format.
This is what we call schema on write.
Any application using the data needs to
know this format in order to retrieve and
use the data.
In this approach,
data is not loaded into the warehouse
unless there is a use for it.
However, schema on read
approach of data lakes ensures
all data is stored for
a potentially unknown use at a later time.
So how is a data lake
from a data warehouse?
A traditional data warehouse
stores data in a hierarchical file
system with a well-defined structure.
However, a data lake stores data as
flat files with a unique identifier.
This often gets referred to as
object storage in big data systems.
In data lakes each data is stored
as a binary large object or
BLOB and is assigned a unique identifier.
In addition, each data object is
tagged with a number of metadata tags.
The data can be searched
using these metadata tags
to retrieve it when there
is a need to access it.
From a users perspective,
metadata is stored is not a problem as
long as it is accessible when needed.
In Hadoop data architectures,
data is loaded into HDFS and processed
using the appropriate data management and
analytical systems on commodity clusters.
The selection of the tools is based on the
nature of the problem being solved, and
the data format being accessed.
We will talk more about
the processing of data streams and
data lakes in the next course
in this specialization.
To summarize a data lake is
a storage architecture for
big data collection and processing.
It enables collection of
all data suitable for
analysis today and
potentially in the future.
Regardless of the data source,
structure, and
format it supports storage of data and
transforms it only when it is needed.
A data lake ideally supports all parts
of the user base to benefit from
this architecture, including business,
storage, analytics and computing experts.
Finally, And perhaps most importantly,
data lakes are infrastructure components
within a big data architecture
that can evolve over time based
on application-specific needs.